BPView: Browser for ADIOS2 BP files.

Overview:

Extreme-scale computing is used to improve handling of large and complex datasets. To capture benefits of extreme-scale computing for data management, we created BPView, a powerful Python-based graphical user interface (GUI). This GUI enhances display and visualization of data stored in binary-pack (BP) files; BP files are generated by Adaptable Input/Output System version 2 (ADIOS2) . The GUI combines the functionalities of the “bpls” command and the “gsplot.py” and “pdfplot.py” programs and its layout is inspired by HDFView and eSimMon. The “bpls” command transforms a BP file into human-readable format and is used to display the data; the “gsplot.py” program creates 2-dimensional data plots and the “pdfplot.py” program creates 1-dimensional plots, thereby visualizing the data but they are specific to one set of example data. The GUI has multiple options for viewing the data: displaying in any dimensions, plotting one or multiple steps in one and two dimensions, and plotting two one-dimensional arrays against each other. The BPView program taps various user libraries in Python, including ADIOS2, NumPy, Matplotlib, and Tkinter. The program uses the ADIOS2 library to read the data and implements NumPy to store and manipulate data in multidimensional arrays which serve as inputs that Matplotlib uses to visualize the data. The Tkinter library is the basis of the GUI, thus making it user-friendly. Using this combination of different libraries and multiple viewing functions in a single application creates a powerful means for viewing BP files. Because the program provides an interface combining the display and visualization of the ADIOS2-native binary-pack files, the GUI is more efficient at viewing ADIOS2 outputted datasets than previous terminal-based test-only tools. Ultimately, BPView is currently the most powerful interface for displaying and plotting data from BP files, contributing to further advancements in science and ADIOS2 development.


Necessary Python libraries:
- numpy
- matplotlib
- tkinter
- adios2
- argparse


Instructions:

1. Make sure the necessary Python libraries above and bpview.py from this repository are installed on device.
2. Type "python3 path_to_bpview/bpview.py -b path_to_bpfile/file.bp" (without apostrophes) into the command line of the terminal of choice where "path_to_bpview" is the path to where bpview.py was installed, "path_to_bpfile" is the path to where the BP file is located, and "file.bp" is the name of the BP file. "--bp_file" can also be used instead of "-b".
3. The BPView window will pop up with selection options and entries. Select a variable on the left by clicking on it.
4. Enter an integer each for step start and step count according to available steps displayed on the left. Example: 1.
5. Enter an array with brackets each for selection start and selection count according to dimensions displayed on the left. Example: [1,13,14].
6. OPTIONAL: enter an erray for second selection start.
7. Click on "Display" button if data is to be displayed or "Plot" button if data is to be plotted.
8. Repeat steps 3-7 to get another display/plot.
9. Press X on the top right of the window to close it, or press X on the top right of the BPView window or press Control+C in the terminal to close all of the windows and stop the program.D


Data Display:

- Any number of steps and dimensions can be displayed.


1-D Plot:

- Step count must be 1.
- Selection count must include exactly one entry that is greater than 1. Examples: [1,23,1] , [47,1,1,1].


1-D Plot Series:

- Step count must be greater than 1.
- Selection count must include exactly one entry that is greater than 1. Examples: [1,23,1] , [47,1,1,1].


2-D Plot:

- Step count must be 1.
- Selection count must include exactly two entries that are greater than 1. Examples: [1,23,59] , [47,1,22,1].


2-D Plot Series:

- Step count must be greater than 1.
- Selection count must include exactly two entries that are greater than 1. Examples: [1,23,59] , [47,1,22,1].


2 1-D Array Comparison Plot:

- Step count must be 1.
- Both selection counts must include exactly one entry that is greater than 1. Examples: [1,23,1] , [47,1,1,1].


Credits:

BPView was developed by Fanni Kertesz with the guidance of Norbert Podhorszki as a research project for the Science Undergraduate Laboratory Internships at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
